I"#<p>Dr Amrita Vohra has been an eminent educationist for the past 23 years. She began her career as a Lecturer for English Literature at Navyug Girls Post Graduate College, Lucknow, where she established the Functional English Department.</p>

<p>Thereafter, she joined Jaipuria Institute of Management (JIM) and later Amity University as a Lecturer for English, Soft Skills and Business Communication training students from Mass Communication and Management programmes. She also worked for the English and Women’s Studies Departments at IT College, Lucknow, where she taught Literature and Feminist Literary Criticism in Post Graduate courses.</p>

<p>Child and Female Psychology has been her calling, since her days as a student and thus her PhD thesis deals with contradictions within the ‘Self’. Apart from various nuances of literary theory and its application in Indian women’s writing, the thesis traces the dilemmas of women and children amidst the chaos of change in the fin-de-siecle.</p>

<p>She has been a regular Speaker at various workshops and a trainer for Short term Courses on Literary Theory held at IIT, Kharagpur. She has also written various articles on education. Of these ‘Education Revolution’ is one of the noteworthy series published in The Times of India. These articles draw attention to the need for urgent changes in the Education system.</p>

<p>Dr Vohra has also been responsible for managing and setting up some esteemed educational institutions like The Millennium School, Lucknow as Headmistress and G.D. Goenka Public School, Lucknow as Principal. She moved on to research, curriculum design, teacher education, educational leadership training and school management while working with Global Classroom, as ‘Head – Academic Research and Training’. Catering to over 50 Franchisee and Affiliate schools across India, she travelled the country training teachers and school leaders for Dr Sunita Gandhi’s initiative to bring about change in education. Her varied experience in education management and school systems across India is one of her key strengths.</p>

<p>Apart from academic achievements, Dr Vohra is also an accomplished Bharatnatyam dancer trained at Prayag Sangeet Samiti, Allahabad. She has been a junior state champion for Badminton from YMCA, Allahabad. She has also been closely associated with Theatre and has been a guest faculty for Literature and Dramatic Art at Bhartendu Natak Academy (BNA). She has conducted various Theatre Workshops, scripted and directed productions with school and college students.</p>

<p>In her present profile as Head – Professional Development and Quality Assurance with GEMS Education, India, she is leading on Teacher Education and Quality Assurance. She has helped the organization set up new school projects, provided services to managed schools associated with GEMS, developed and re-organized the Policy manuals for GEMS India K-12 schools and provided continuous mentoring and support to School Leadership teams and most importantly teachers. Being a firm believer in Joint practice development and sharing of good practices, she has set up Professional Learning Communities of teachers in GEMS India both offline and online. She is also a certified Program Leader for Cambridge Professional Development Qualifications (PDQs) having designed one year Diploma programmes for in-service teachers and School Leaders. She has also conducted workshops for teachers in small town and village schools of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh as well as the DIET Principals in the Southern state of Kerala. During her tenure with GEMS, she has contributed as Acting Principal for GEMS schools at Gurgaon, Bhopal and Karnal to salvage crisis situations. She is a member of the GEMS Global Education team lead by Mr. Tony Little and is a regular contributor to the GEMS India blog.</p>
:ET